# Coding

Coding is a highly useful skill throughout your research and future professional career. 
Having a good coding habbit can help you improve your research efficiency, avoid unnecessary error and bugs, and make it easier to understand by your collaborators. 

Below are some aspects that can make you good at coding.

## Readability

Good code readability is important and has the following merits:
- Easy to understand (by others and even future yourself!)
- Easy to debug. Bugs in code are inevitable. When things do not work, you need to debug that, and clean and tidy code makes it easy to debug.
- Easy to open-source. To have an impactful work, open-sourcing your code to allow the research community to reproduce your results is important. Writing code as clean as possible allows you publish your code as soon as your paper gets published (no need to spend more effort to clean the code).

In this section, I only list some examples to show you why code readability is important. For more details, follow the Python style guides: [PEP 8](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/) and [Google guideline](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html).

- Pay attention to how you name variables, functions and files. Use `intertia = 100` instead of `a = 100`, unless you are quickly testing something and the script will be deleted shortly.

- Write and maintain docstring is helpful. (Question: what is a docstring?)

- If you see repeated code blocks, refactor it by using for loops or make it a generalized function to be called at different places.

- Do not put everything in a single line, split it. (Question: what is the maximum line length suggested by the guideline? How to set it in VSCode?)

See an example [here](https://github.com/openai/spinningup/blob/master/spinup/algos/pytorch/ppo/ppo.py), you can see the code is clean and tidy. The process of making the code nice and clean is called _code refactoring_. See these two videos on how people refactor their code: [Video 1](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1xT4y1B7yk) and [Video 2](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1QB4y1y7Tr/).

Again, refer to the guidelines mentioned above and make sure you follow them in practice, until these become your muscle memory.

## Tools
- __Git__
  
  Always backup your code to the extend that you can afford to the loss of your unsaved work.

  Git is a `version control` tool for managing your code repository.

  - What to include? 

    This is simple: things that are important, like the code you recently developed for your research, should be included.

  - What not to include? 
    
    This is important: when you are not sure if a file should be included, think twice. Do not include things that are not necessary to the repository. Things that we don't want to include are, for example, your own research notes or some files auto-generated by your computer (*.pyc, .DS_Store). To exclude these files, specify these file types in `.gitignore` to let git directly ignore these files.

  - Basic commands

    Learn basic commands [here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-git/about-git#basic-git-commands), 90\% of the time you only need these. So, make sure you are familiar with it. Here is a [cheatsheet](https://training.github.com/downloads/zh_CN/github-git-cheat-sheet/) for it, and [another more visually interactive one](https://ndpsoftware.com/git-cheatsheet.html).

  - Pull request
    
    We will get to this later if we need this. For now, you can check what _pull request_ mean and learn it at your free time if interested.

- __Conda environment__

  __ALWAYS__ use conda environments, never use a single Python interpreter for all your projects. 
  
  - Installation: Compared with GUI installation, I personally prefer this command line installation [Link for Mac](https://docs.anaconda.com/free/anaconda/install/mac-os/#command-line-install).

  - Common commands cheatsheet:
  
    - Create a new env: `conda create -n xxx python=3.11`
    - See all existing envs: `conda info --envs`
    - Activate an env: `conda activate xxx`
    - Install packages within the env: `conda install numpy` or `pip install numpy`. See the differences between conda install and pip install [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/20994716/what-is-the-difference-between-pip-and-conda). I personally suggest using pip to install.
    - Install your own package: go to the folder where the code for this package is (where `setup.py` is) and then use `pip install -e .`
    - See all existing packages in the env: `conda list`
    - Exist the environment: `conda deactivate`

  - Share your Conda environment

    If all your packages are installed using `pip`, you can use `pip freeze > requirements.txt` to export all libraries you installed in this environment. This txt file can be shared with your collaborator, and with that your collaborator can install all these libraries using `pip install -r requirements.txt`.

- __VSCode__
  
  Configurations:
  - How to set up Python interpreter? Connect with Conda environment.
  - Remember to set up auto-save.
  - See documentation of `settings` [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings)

  How to use it properly?
  - Single step debugging.
  - Just my code? Set in launch.json.

- __Pylint__

  You don't have to use Pylint if you find other linter more suitable to you.

- __Formatter__

  First, what's the differences between a linter and a formatter? [Answer](https://nono.ma/linter-vs-formatter)

  Use a formatter in VSCode [Link](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/formatting)


- __Jupyter Notebook__

  The Jupyter notebook can be installed using `pip install notebook` and can be started using `jupyter notebook`. 

  Consider when to use Jupyter notebook and when to run Python script. This is a personal choice, but general principles are:

In summary, once you have all the tools integrated to you computer, you should be able to develop code for your research efficiently!


